session 1 -

Chapter 1 - Data Connectors
This is like shopping the grocery. Companies contain on-prem and cloud stored data that a power bi data analyst access. It also contain 'beta' which is not use for the production in an organisation.
Also can be seen in the power bi desktop as the [Get Data] button. Where all the certified and uncertified data connectors have tested or customs which are not certified by the Microsoft are present. 

Chapter 2 - Adjust connection settings (credentials, Privacy-level)
The runaway when the data source file is set to the another path by college.So this problem is solve by actually change setting option on the command center
Home - trasform data - transform data data source setting - command center

secret hand shake for example password of the sql server changed by the organisation and the IT team then we solve it by global permissions and edit it.
global permission - edit

Credentials?

Privacy Level-
This is about the data privacy level containing the data sources which can mold with private or public data with the given categories(Private, Public and Organisational)

Private - cannot mold into any other public or private data source because it includes sensitive data the organisation stored. Like the employers review.

Public - It is the public data source provided by the websites like Wikipedia. This is publicly available.

Organisational - Only trusted groups get the data source access.

Gateway?

Also there is the fresh start setting 

clear permission which force the power bi credentials all over again.

Chapter 3 - Choose between shared or local semantic model

This about the semantic modal which is the kitchen where the data is prepared by the analytical head(head chef) which can also be accessed by the other junior analyst(Junior chef's). Once the head creates the data. It is prepare for everyone to use. This avoids the inefficiency. When the junior access the created dataset from a semantic model. A pop up comes asking the permission or alert.
Shared semantic model is created by the head of analytics which have the expertise in it. and then the line cook which are the juniors access it for individual analytical work. This is for maintaining the efficiency (Data Anarchy). 

When the new employee try to access the semantic model he cannot transform it as the semantic model is already prepared with the relational and prepared data. 
When the new employee try to trasform the pop up which we talk occur "DirectQuery connection is required"

Chapter 4

This contains the storage methods as follows

Import - This is the fast and used for small to medium size data sets

Direct Query - This for large data sets which are updated. Mean we get the real time data from a warehouse for example. The Runner picks the data and reach to the analyst. It takes time comparatively that the Import as the runner has to do the work. Identification is solid blue line.

Dual Composition - This include both to improve the efficiency and to reduce trips. Identification is of dotted dark blue line. With the huge data only go for the direct query but use the dual for small. so when that small data is set to the dual it indicates as the dark blue dotted lines.

Chapter 5 - Parameters

Use parameters to save the time and effort. By Setting the parameters the only thing is to change the value and it will give the desired result needed in the table.(This is beneficial to use)
It is easily maintained and dynamically flexible.

So the power query editor

Transform data - Transform data - manage parameter

i.e.

Sales_Internation - Source(with the gear icon) - Excel book
Sales_US - Source(with the gear icon) - Fullpath - fix - Advance - move to up 

pFilepath - Make the file dynamic in future (Important trick)
pYearselector - For the paratmeter dedicated to the years

so if we want to compair for

"<" ">" ">=" "<=" "!="

Parameters set the foundation for the incremental refresh and readability

When you create a parameter, always give it a specific data type like text or decimal number.

If you leave it as the any data type you wont't be edit it in a Power BI Service. Which defeat's half the purpose.



