session 2

Lesson 1.2 

"Buying grocery wash and chop" - basically messy dataset to cleaned dataset

Problems example - Null value. Duplicated

Chapter 1

Examine Column stats, Data Types, Null, Errors, outliers.

So it should be the Power Query Editor where you have the data set.

Select Query - View - Data Preview

so data preview contain three things 

1. Column Distribution - variety of data 

Distinct : Total count of different values in column.
Unique : Unique value which appears only once.

so if the distinct value is not equals to unique value then there will be a duplicated present.
Example : If you have the column which is supposed to be unique like product_id but the distinct and unique count do not match then you have duplicates.

Column Query : Categorized data in the three 

1. Valid : Ready to go data.
2. Error : Tantrams and problem.
3. Empty : Blank

Column Profile : When you need to know all about the column.

Datatype : If you have one value mile's away from anything in the chart. You have found the outlier need to investigate.

The original text value cannot turn into a Whole number as it will show error.
So, count will equal to error.

At the very bottom left of the power query we have the column profiling based on top 1000 rows. Which tell the initial 1000 rows (Try to read it again)
Now change that into the entire dataset.

Chapter 2 - Standardize Format, Trim Test, Replace

"The clean up work"

Transform data - transform data - Power Query Editor

1. First right click on the column with inconsistency and transform 

For example Trim 

Trim - shaves off all invisible bytes space from beginning and end of string's.

After this the column will be consistent.

2. Also, other example is the key column with duplicate's.

Let's Fix,

Select the column to fix - Home - Remove rows (In Reduce rows) - remove duplicates. (Easy)

It is now ready to build relationship's.

3. Combined column (Categories, Product, Customer)

So Instead of one the add all three in together which is the problem.

Let's unpacked it.
(So let the delimiter be the "-")

Select column (click) - Split column - delimiter - ok

This Splits the column in three instantly. Not Done!

So there should be the spaces present. So, Now select the three and trim.

4. Null values - No values 

But confusing - let's make it meaningful

Select column - Right click - replace values - 1. Values to find = Null 2. Replace with other - ok

Null are gone.
 


 



 